---
template: BlogPost
path: /Make-Money-from-Short-Videos
date: 2020-02-20T07:08:53.137Z
title: Mastering YouTube Shorts| Learn How to Make Money from Short Videos
thumbnail: 'https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/a/AVvXsEiLUZJ2lH4hzIdVN21nC_xUoDooKk93lkVuaAwafLkuNuM8k93MaBSsmGutyJLiYEMpySJ6dzB5k2h4gdlp6NWHTxj98abU9F2PZmQmorE1HWSJQfGE68GGgSTsvX0jlE-sGqyTbPESkDDb6GGn3xjCHGkuCjcorw1FTpNjPAXRU6q1d_1nMiVH7tr3gg'
metaDescription: Until 2023, making money through YouTube Shorts in the conventional sense was not possible
---

## Is YouTube Shorts Monetized?

Until 2023, making money through YouTube Shorts in the conventional sense was not possible. However, a significant change occurred on February 1, 2023, when YouTube Shorts monetization became accessible to most creators. The introduction of a new advertising revenue sharing model for Shorts replaced the previous YouTube Shorts Monetization Fund.

## How Does YouTube Shorts Monetization Work?

Monetizing YouTube Shorts revolves around a few key factors: 

adherence to the rules, acceptance of the terms, and reaching the monetization threshold. In essence, once you meet the eligibility criteria for monetization, you will receive payouts from the YouTube Shorts Creator Pool. Here's a breakdown of the process.

## YouTube Shorts Monetization Rules

To understand how to monetize YouTube Shorts, you'll need to familiarize yourself with the updated terms and conditions introduced by the YouTube Partner Program (YPP). Content creators who aim to earn money on the platform must accept these new terms by July 10, 2023. Even if you're not specifically targeting YouTube Shorts monetization, reading and accepting these terms is still necessary. 

The primary focus of the update is opting into the following monetization modules:

- Watch Page Monetization Module: This allows you to continue earning money from ads displayed across your long-form, live-streamed, and YouTube Premium content.
- Shorts Monetization Module: With this module, you can earn money from YouTube Shorts through ads that play between Shorts in the Shorts feed.
- Commerce Product Addendum: This addendum covers monetization for additional features such as Channel Memberships, Super Chat, Super Stickers, and Super Thanks. If you're already using these features, you won't need to agree to them again, as the terms remain unchanged. YouTube recommends opting into all of these modules to maximize your potential earnings.

## How to Enable YouTube Shorts Monetization

Once you have accepted the new terms, you don't need to worry—YouTube Shorts is already monetized! In case you missed the announcement, you might need to visit YouTube Studio on your web browser, rather than the YouTube app, to accept the terms.

Utilizing YouTube Shorts

Now that we have covered the activation process, let's delve into the YouTube Shorts monetization rules. How does YouTube Shorts generate revenue, and how can you get a share of it? Let's find out.

## Can I Monetize YouTube Shorts with 1,000 Subscribers?

The good news is that you can indeed monetize YouTube Shorts with just 1,000 subscribers. However, the catch is that you must also accumulate 10 million valid Shorts views within the past 90 days. If this seems unattainable, an alternative path to monetization is having 1,000 followers and 4,000 valid public watch hours on your primary YouTube feed, all obtained within the previous 12 months.

Meeting these criteria enables you to activate ads and earn 45% of the allocated ad revenue generated by your Shorts videos, while the remaining percentage goes to YouTube. This revenue distribution comes from a fund called the Creator Pool, which proportionately splits the ad money among all eligible Shorts creators.

## How Much Do YouTube Shorts Ads Pay?

Determining the exact earnings from YouTube Shorts monetization is challenging since there is no official equation to calculate the amount per 1,000 views. While some have suggested an approximate value of $0.04 per 1,000 views, YouTube has not provided concrete figures on this matter.

Nevertheless, whatever amount you earn will represent a 45% share of the gross revenue, following YouTube's standard ad revenue payment model. It's worth noting that YouTube Shorts monetization only applies to views acquired after accepting the new terms. Therefore, previous Shorts views will not generate any revenue.

## Does YouTube Shorts Watch Time Count for Monetization?

Given the brevity of YouTube Shorts, watch time does not factor into monetization. The focus is solely on the number of views. However, the accumulation of 4,000 watch hours from your main YouTube feed can be utilized to unlock YouTube Shorts monetization in the first place.

## Why Can't I Monetize My YouTube Shorts?

There are a couple of reasons why you may not be able to monetize your YouTube Shorts. Firstly, if you have reposted content onto YouTube Shorts, whether it's from another creator or a clip from a TV show, it disqualifies you from earning revenue. Only original content is eligible for monetization. Additionally, YouTube Shorts that have artificially inflated views from automated clicks or bots are not eligible for monetization.

If you want to use music in your YouTube Shorts while ensuring monetization eligibility, you can utilize our music library. Subscribing to Epidemic Sound provides you with all the necessary rights to use our music and sound effects in your published content. It's more than just royalty-free; it's worry-free. Check out our 30-day free trial and start soundtracking your YouTube Shorts—and the world—today.